index.adoc, before:

= Congratulations!
:showtitle:
:page-title: Jekyll AsciiDoc Quickstart
:page-description: A forkable blog-ready Jekyll site using AsciiDoc

You've successfully set up and deployed an Jekyll website powered by AsciiDoc using the https://github.com/asciidoctor/jekyll-asciidoc-quickstart[*Jekyll AsciiDoc Quickstart*] project. If everything is in order then changes to the AsciiDoc content will be automatically published to your `gh_pages` branch and hosted via Jekyll and Github.

== What do I do now?

Now that you've set up your website to run with AsciiDoc, you have a ton of options available to you.

=== Edit content

Editing content is very simple. The easiest way to update your blog is to clone your repository, fire up your favorite text editor and run the content locally. To do this run the `jekyll serve` command and open a web browser to http://localhost:4000. Jekyll will automatically process and host changes to the content.

You may also edit your content directly on Github. To do this, navigate the browser the file you wish to edit, click the pensil (edit) button in the upper right hand corner of the view and make your changes. When you're finished, commit your changes. This will trigger Travis to generate and publish a new website including your changes.

For blog posts, Jekyll will recognize files under the `_post` directory, parse the name and place it in the list of posts. These will show up under the `site.posts` variable.

To display a list of posts, use Jekyll syntax similar to the following:

[source, html]
----
{% for post in site.posts limit: 5 %}
<a href=".{{ post.url }}">{{ post.navtitle }}</a>
{% endfor %}
----

=== Update Look and feel

The layout provided with the https://github.com/asciidoctor/jekyll-asciidoc-quickstart[Jekyll AsciiDoc Quickstart] project is based on http://foundation.zurb.com[Foundation], a responsive design css framework. You're free to update the layout by editing the `_layouts/default.html` file and css under the `css` directory.

//This blog layout is based on the http://foundation.zurb.com/templates-previews-sites-f6/blog.html[Blog template].

=== Reference documentation

The following links will help with detailed explanations on Jekyll and AsciiDoc.

* http://jekyllrb.com[Jekyll]
* http://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoc-syntax-quick-reference/[AsciiDoc Quick Reference]
* http://asciidoctor.org[Asciidoctor]

Commit message:

Personalize the Jekyll AsciiDoc Quickstart content
This commit updates the sample content provided with the Jekyll
AsciiDoc Quickstart package to personalize it in preparation for my
first blog post.

index.adoc, after:

= Random Musings of a Code Fool
:showtitle:
:page-title: The Irregular BLOG of Clifford W. Johnson
:page-description: Anchor page for blog including credits.
:page-liquid:

// > jekyll serve
// > open http://localhost:4000

Welcome to the blog of a sometimes misguided, peculiar, _old_ programmer.  Postings will be irregular and on topics
that, at one point in time, piqued my interest enough so I couldn't drag myself away to work on my real job.

The site is, itself, an experiment
hosted on https://github.com/cljohnso/cljohnso.github.io[GitHub]
making use of http://jekyllrb.com[Jekyll] and
the AsciiDoc https://github.com/asciidoctor/jekyll-asciidoc-quickstart[*Jekyll AsciiDoc Quickstart*] project.
(At some point in time, I'll post a blog entry detailing this.)  As I learn about the tools I'm using and
about others available, the shape of the content will change.

== Recent Posts

{% for post in site.posts limit: 5 %}
* link:.{{ post.url }}[{{ post.navtitle }}]
{% endfor %}

== Credit where credit is due

The following are links to the software on which which blog is based:

* http://jekyllrb.com[Jekyll]
* http://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoc-syntax-quick-reference/[AsciiDoc Quick Reference]
* http://asciidoctor.org[Asciidoctor]
* https://github.com/asciidoctor/jekyll-asciidoc-quickstart[*Jekyll AsciiDoc Quickstart*]
* http://foundation.zurb.com[Foundation]
